whenever u want a local repo intialized then use
1. git init | git init --initial-branch = name

to check whether git knows about the file 
git status

to add files to local repo 
git add . all untracked files
git add <file_name> only a particular file. when we add like this the information is sent to staging area.

(use "git rm --cached <file>..." to unstage)

git commit -m message (we cant bring back files if we dont commit it) this takes a snapshot of local repo.

git log gets the commits 

git log
commit comit ssh (HEAD -> main)
Author: name emial
Date:   time in utc

First Commit 
a branch is created when u do the first commit
as branch is created a HEAD variable is created
it is a pointer to the latest commit 

ok when new commit are created the previous commit information also comes

when u edit the files which are commited or in staging are if u modify it git can track it.
when u modify again u have to add it to staging area and then commit.

git commit -a -m message commits the file without the add to staging area. use this only with tracked files which are tracked by git.
git commit --amend // the previous latest commit can be added with the current staged files.

suppose there is f2 file which is changed and i dont want to create a new commit object but want to the commit with the previous latest commit then use git commit --amend

logs
git log shows all
git log -n 2 last 2 commit only shown
git log --pretty=short|full (controls the output style);
git log -p (shows all the commits made in the staging)
git log --since="1 week ago"  shows all the commits in last one week

Undo commits
git reset -> provides a way to unstage a file and undo commits and delete commits.
types of reset soft mixed hard.
git reset ---soft commitId try to use only the previous commits // changes in the commit are unstaged.
PS D:\git-practice> git reset --soft previousCommitId
PS D:\git-practice> git reset --soft 2d7af9e8ac069645451499a162d33ce9fee051eb
PS D:\git-practice>
git status
On branch main
Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        modified:   f1.txt
        modified:   f2.txt
        new file:   learning.txt

Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
        modified:   learning.txt
default mode is mixed
soft the changes will come in staging area but mixed will bring them into unstaging area
hard will delete the current commit it will remove the newsent

reset will create merge conflict always so prefer revert
another revert
git revert commitId -- to revert 
revert create another commit revert commit message and we can always checkout for the content of the revert commit by
git checkout revertCommitId --to view the content of the commit reverted

Branches
What are Branches
when u are commiting until u push it to the remote github it is stored in local branch 

how to create a branch git branch branch_name
git branch shows all the Branches.(local branches shows this only)
git log
commit commitId (HEAD -> main, origin/main, master)
when the branches head are same then we can say they are in sync

how to go to the branch
git checkout branch_name

so check the logs to understand the branches

we always bring the branch which required to work on and take a cut into new branch and work. 

when we want to merge main with master or vice versa we go to the branch which want the changes and merge with branch which has changes so the commit in the feature are added to the parent branch 

always remember to merge parent branch with child execute from parent branch

when source branch head changes means there is an update in branch which is not available in child branches

Cherry Pick
cherry pick helps not use merge mainly we can use merge also no worries

syntax git cherry-pick commitId(always remeber the commitID will be a copy of that original commitId)

whenever we want to add remote github server to local then use:
git remote origin REMOTE_URL

git branch -r(fetches the remote branches)

git push -u origin master (for the first time only).


git clone url it helps in downloading the copy of the remote into local(u use when u dont have the project)

if ur remote is ahead of local repo and try to push from local it will throw error because it is not reflected on local 

so u can use either git fetch or git pull for this 

git fetch always updates the local branch by checking the remote tracking branches.(it doesnt add to the local branch). then u can merge with those new changes.

git fetch origin master 
origin/master will move to the latest remote command and then merge to set master and origin/master at same.s
 * branch            master     -> FETCH_HEAD
   b1135d0..a98666b  master     -> origin/master(remote commit)
git merge origin/master
Updating b1135d0..a98666b
Fast-forward

git pull works = git fetch + git merge

git fetch --prune (deletes the local repo which are not there in remote)

git fetch origin (fetches all the changes from remote) dont do generally

u can use git pull only on protected branch like main

git stash is used to store the data temporarily
git stash u can stash changes
git stash list to see all stash
